---
layout: post
title: P Vs NP Conundrum
---



Recently I came up with a new problem of P Vs NP, and saw videos of people trying to solve it. Some people often say that this is one of the hardest problem ever to solve though this is also something about hardness. 

It goes something like if P is a set of relatively easy problems, and NP is a set that includes what seem to be very, very hard problems, so P = NP would imply that the apparently hard problems actually have relatively easy solutions. At first I was like how can someone generalise this kind off thing that depends over a person and more of on the state of mind of the person solving the problem. Though it really happens with me sometimes, for instance - While connecting a Nest API with Angular frontend I had to write services of Http requests So, the process and things were quite easy to understand but hard to implement because each time I was forgetting the Auth Headers. Anyways coming back to P vs NP the other thing I found interesting was that the problem was more of about the approach rather than getting the solution. The P NP problems can be approached by NP completeness concept. For instance the Boolean satisfiability problem is NP-complete by the Cook–Levin theorem, so any instance of any problem in NP can be transformed mechanically into an instance of the Boolean satisfiability problem in polynomial time. The Boolean satisfiability problem is one of many such NP-complete problems. If any NP-complete problem is in P, then it would follow that P = NP. However, many important problems have been shown to be NP-complete, and no fast algorithm for any of them is known. So, they can be categorized into Np complete and Np Hard problems and which means like for any NP complete it is an NP problem that is at least as "tough" as any other problem in NP. 💁🏻‍♂️ Thats all for now. More to come soon. 
